# HRI Value Compass

The HRI Value Compass is a web tool that helps researchers identify values
and ethical concerns that arise in human-robot interactions (HRI). It was
developed as part of a joint study by Ghent University (Belgium) and
Politecnico di Milano (Italy). The publication of the study is currently
under review and is available at the following link:
[Ethical Concerns and Values in Human-Robot Interactions]().

<!-- TODO: fix link -->

If you use the tool in your research, please cite the publication.

The tool is hosted at [hri-value-compass.github.io](hri-value-compass.github.io).
A paper version of the tool is available on [zenodo](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14002841).


The HRI Value Compass guides the user through a three steps process. In
the first step, the user is invited to reflect on the context in which the
robot will be used. In the second step, the user is guided through a
series of questions that help identify the values that are relevant in
that context. In the third step, the interface displays provides an
overview of the values that were identified, useful for further reflection
and discussion.

The tool is built on the results of a scoping review and a focus group
with technology ethics experts. The results of this study are available by
clicking names of each topic in the tool, providing useful links to the
literature for further reading. You can also explore the topics and
references in a table format.

## "Ethical Concerns and Values in Human-Robot Interactions" -- Abstract

Robots, as AI with physical instantiation, inhabit our social and physical
world, where their actions have both social and physical consequences,
posing challenges for researchers when designing social robots. This study
starts with a scoping review to identify potential ethical concerns
arising from interactions with robotic systems. A focus group of
technology ethics experts then established a comprehensive list of key
topics and values in human-robot interaction (HRI) literature. These
insights were integrated into the HRI Value Compass web tool, to help HRI
researchers identify ethical values in robot design. The tool was
evaluated in a pilot study. This work benefits the HRI community by
highlighting key ethical concerns in human-robot interactions and
providing an instrument to help researchers design robots that align with
human values, ensuring future robotic systems adhere to these values in
social applications.

## Contributing

If you would like to contribute to the HRI Value Compass, please open an
issue on this repository. We are open to suggestions for new features,
improvements, and bug reports. We are also open to collaborations with
other researchers who would like to use the tool in their research.

<!-- ## Citation -->

<!-- Put citation here -->
